hello everybody my name is Eric Francis
and let's talk about light and dark for
a second I chose to keep the painting
light because almost every color on this
painting is mixed with white it's a
choice you're gonna have to make you
either want it on the darker side or the
lighter side I think it keeps it more
interesting I chose to keep it on the
lighter side then also I chose Naples
yellow it's a lighter color I use the
light in the foreground so I use it
again in the background I just added
some white let's get painting
this is how I arranged the colors to
darks to lights and to mid-tones
in this formula we use a bit more Sienna
Sienna is a reddish brown kind of color
and it makes the skin tone look a bit
Tanner than in the first painting
we apply paint to the canvas in thin
washes the end results are fantastic the
skin will look luminous and soft
or the hair as an under painting I used
number 4 the dark areas Sienna for
mid-tones and Naples yellow for
highlights I finished it off by adding
the lightest skin tone for highlights
and the darkest skin tone for contrast
to conclude this video let me say you
have to focus on each and every brush
stroke and how each brush stroke
corresponds to other brush strokes to do
this would mean you are great in small
things to be great in small things leads
to great paintings let's go on to the
next video